Title: A Little Quiz  
Author: Chris Prather
Date: 2009-05-30 17:49:48

This is hypothetical so don't read too deeply into it. Let's say you're
walking across town carrying some heavy bags. Let's also say that you're
walking in front of a bicycle shop and the owner is out front sweeping. Let's
say that the owner offers to give you one of his cheaper bicycles for free
because (he says) he's been in your situation before and knows how much easier
it would make things if you could stick the stuff in the panniers and just
ride to where you're going. Let's say that while you can ride a bicycle, the
model he has has some features you don't understand, and it makes you worry
you may not be able to ride *this* bicycle properly. When you bring this up
the owner apologizes and says that the bicycle is one of his own design but he
hasn't gotten to writing a manual for the features. Here's the quiz part, do
you a) use the bicycle, taking a chance later to try out the features and
write down what they do for the owner as a thank you for giving you a free
bicycle when you needed it, b) thank the owner for his kind offer but politely
decline because you're concerned that the features may not work properly for
you without a better understanding of what they do, or c) complain that the
owner doesn't really care about his customers because he is spending time
sweeping in front of his store rather than working on the documentation?

**Hint** a) and b) are things my mother would be proud of, c) would have
gotten me walloped. I'm ashamed of some [people][1]'s sense of entitlement. I
hope I raise my children better.

[1]: http://rjbs.manxome.org/rubric/entry/1765
