Title: Imponderables  
Author: Chris Prather
Date: 2002-08-14 00:00:00

# Imponderables
This article: http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/sci/tech/2181455.stm

Has gotten me wondering again about the speed of
light and my private cosmology in which I believe
that the universal constants can shift over time,
but that because we exist inside the system we
cannot gauge these changes accurately. Mostly it's
my small attempt at explaining the issues most
Christian's throw at Radio-Carbon Dating, and to
overcome the baby-bathwater syndrome.

If you allow that universal constants can slow or
expand over time (time itself being a constant that
can change) and you follow Einstein's frame
concepts in Relatitivity then roughly (and I'm not
a physicist) you can explain both the mythic young
earth and the scientific old earth phenomoneons
with a single theory. Isn't this what science is
about? Granted I allow non-scientific data to enter
into my theorization, but I generally work from the
same premise as Sherlock Holmes, eliminate
everything that is impossible, and whatever is
left, no matter how improbable, is the truth. For
example, nobody belives the earth is the center of
the solar system anymore.

Back to the article above though. What this has me
now thinking (other than Yippee! Evidence that I
may have been right!) is that there's nothing to
say that this expansion/slowing of constants takes
place at a uniform rate in all places at all times.
There could be situations where for a localized
setting it actually reverses temporarily, but how
this would affect the local area of space-time and
what effect would be mesuarable to test this theory
I have no clue. If only I had the ear of a decent
research physics department to prove my own pet
theories about Life the Universe and Everything.

More idle pratter later. Work now.
