Title: iPad Hating has Jumped the Shark
Author: Chris Prather
Date: 2010-04-06

# iPad Hating has Jumped the Shark

In his recent post [Wrong About the iPad][1], Tim Bray attempts to rebut
a quote from Marc Benioff.

> But then Benioff goes on to say “It’s not about text, or even
> animation, it’s about video.” That is so, so, wrong. Intelligence is a
> text-based application. Benioff isn’t stupid but that remark is.

I read Tim Bray because he is a well educated and interesting writer.
Tim Bray isn't stupid, but that rebuttal is. I have a university degree
in recorded intelligence (Technical Communication)[^1], one of the
things my professors made *abundantly* clear was that intelligence is
not bound to text. One professor in fact pointed out that at one point
in time no less than Plato himself decried the growing reliance upon
text as a substitute for Wisdom.

    Socrates: I cannot help feeling, Phaedrus, that writing is
    unfortunately like painting; for the creations of the painter have
    the attitude of life, and yet if you ask them a question they
    preserve a solemn silence. And the same may be said of speeches. You
    would imagine that they had intelligence, but if you want to know
    anything and put a question to one of them, the speaker always gives
    one unvarying answer. And when they have been once written down they
    are tumbled about anywhere among those who may or may not understand
    them, and know not to whom they should reply, to whom not: and, if
    they are maltreated or abused, they have no parent to protect them;
    and they cannot protect or defend themselves. -- [Phaedrus][2]

This same professor went on to speak about how we were now moving toward
a post-literate intelligence. That is that we have people who are
functionally illiterate, but their intelligence and world view is shaped
by media that is fundamentally textual. 90% of the video we watch is
based upon text, that's why it's still called Screenwriting.

Tim Bray goes on to show that he's not anti-video.

> Oh, and by the way, I consume a moderate amount of video, and I really
> like doing it on the 1080p LCD TV just the right distance in front of
> my comfy leather chair with the great footstool.

Congratulations, you have just proved you are a fogey[^2]. This is the
cultural equivalent of Monty Python's _Four Yorkshiremen_.

    FIRST YORKSHIREMAN:
    In them days we was glad to have the price of a cup o' tea.
    
    SECOND YORKSHIREMAN:
    A cup o' cold tea.
    
    FOURTH YORKSHIREMAN:
    Without milk or sugar.
    
    THIRD YORKSHIREMAN:
    Or tea.
    
    FIRST YORKSHIREMAN:
    In a cracked cup, an' all.
    
    FOURTH YORKSHIREMAN:
    Oh, we never had a cup. We used to have to drink out of a rolled up
    newspaper.
    
    SECOND YORKSHIREMAN:
    The best we could manage was to suck on a piece of damp cloth.

    THIRD YORKSHIREMAN:
    But you know, we were happy in those days, though we were poor.

Simply put Mr. Bray, You're not *getting* it.

My younger brother, although well past the age you could call him the
"next generation", tends to prefer Hulu to his Television. Hulu has that
special feature that it's not grounded in a specific time and location,
unlike say Cable Television. Also we've been hearing for years how
YouTube has spawned a bi-directional communication culture. People
making and responding to dorky videos. Tim Bray has even commented on
this several times over the years[^3].

This is what I think of when people tell me that the future is video.
People who are now in their teens and pre-teens shooting video of
themselves and uploading it to YouTube, because it's faster than
blogging.

For disclosure I have pre-ordered a 3G iPad. I hope it will fill a sweet
spot I found lacking in a hacker's device. I sound like a typical Apple
Fanatic; I have a Macbook Pro as my primary computer and an iPhone as my
"mobile device". Previous to both of these devices I used "Open"
platforms (Gentoo and an Android powered G1 respectively), and found
them both to be wonderful when I wanted to play with *them*, and painful
when I wanted to play with *anything else*[^4].

While I have professional interest in writing applications for the iPad
itself[^5], I have no time or energy to do so for recreational purposes.
My recreational time is taken up working on things that do not live on
my device, but rather by things that live on CPAN and the Web. While I
would be happy if Apple were to decide to open their platform in the way
that say Alex Payne recently [outlined][5], I fundamentally don't care.
My phone, computer, and eventually iPad, are the tools I use to get to
the *real* place I do my work. The Web.

The arguments against the iPad are that because it's not Open means that
somehow my use case is not possible, or that somehow my use case is
somehow inferior to that of someone wanting to write applications that
run on the iPad. This is I think where the true irony sets in. The
arguments that Plato has Socrates make in the Phaedrus echo these same
arguments. They are in fact the same arguments made against any
technology that claims it will change the world. The fact that Mr. Bray
has come full circle from Plato and argues that intelligence is
*fundementally* textual highlights how silly things have gotten.

So Mr. Bray, I have to disagree with you that intelligence is
fundamentally text based. I do this ironically because my rebuttal is
textual, but titled with a reference to a visual common history.

[^1]: This will come as deep irony to anybody who has to proof read my writing.

[^2]: Note I am a fogey too by these standards. When I watch video I tend to watch it on my TV, at the broadcast times that are offered to me by the cable company.

[^3]: [Googling][3] is left as an exercise to the reader.

[^4]: Not entirely true, ConnectBot and the hardware keyboard on the G1 are by far more useful than the hateful touch screen keyboard on the iPhone and iSSH. I suspect this is a matter of screen real-estate.

[^5]: One of the things [Tamarou][4] specializes in is iPhone/iPad development.

[1]: http://www.tbray.org/ongoing/When/201x/2010/04/02/Wrong-About-the-iPad
[2]: http://classics.mit.edu/Plato/phaedrus.html
[3]: http://www.google.com/search?sourceid=chrome&ie=UTF-8&q=site:www.tbray.org+youtube
[4]: http://tamarou.com
[5]: http://al3x.net/2010/04/05/ipad-openness-moderates.html