Title: Worry Bugs  
Author: Chris Prather
Date: 2002-05-30 00:00:00

I didn't post yesterday, I spent much of my time
worrying about some bugs in Soq. I think I've got
them reolved down to re-designing the object
structure but while I'm tinkering with the innards
I decided to go and design the abstract class so I
can do some interitance bits, which in tern led to
a long pondering of how to build inheritible class
data in Perl's OO paradigm. I think I have it
sorted, but I haven't implimented anything yet so
who really knows.

Had a dream last night that was very bizzar, Jamie
(my wife if you don't know ... but generally I
suppose you wouldn't be reading this if you didn't
know her) owned a shoe store on Rose St. When I
told her about it this morning she said that it was
a good idea, selling London style shoes here in
Edinburgh.

::sigh::

I haven't read any of Techgnosis for the last two
nights, spent most of Wed night talking with Jamie
about money (how to pay bills, how to save cash,
how to not go crazy because we only have an
allowance of &pound;5.00) and last night I played
with Photoshop 7 for a bit looking at a massive
site redesign for prather.org.

Expect Change. Don't Expect Exact Change.
