---
layout: post
Title: Blawd
Date: 2009-10-17 15:32

---
# Blawd

So I broke Moveable Type a few weeks back and haven't been able to post a new
blog post since then. I've been getting tired of Moveable Type's over head on
my server, and while I appreciate the work put into
[Melody](http://openmelody.org/) I've decided to try something different.

I've been intrigued by [Bloxsom](http://blosxom.com/) style blogs in the past
but I really didn't like some of the choices that blosxom made, and I thought
the thought every hacker has "Hey I could do that!". So I decided to try.

This blog is now self-hosting on a web framework I wrote called
[Blawd](http://github.com/perigrin/blawd)

    20:42 <@perigrin> .ety flower
    20:42 <+phenny> "c.1200, from O.Fr. flor, from L. florem (nom. flos)
    'flower' (see flora), from PIE base *bhlo- 'to blossom, flourish' (cf.
    M.Ir. blath, Welsh blawd 'blossom, flower,' O.E. blowan 'to flower,
    bloom')." - http://etymonline.com/?term=flower

Blawd is written in Moose and uses Git::PurePerl to introspect a Git
repository and render the files it finds there as a blog. The files themselves
are stored as MultiMarkdown documents. This combination means I can write my
blog on my laptop and publish it on my server easily (a must for me), and I
can keep track of revisions.

Blawd is obviously a *very* alpha piece of software, and it's a highly
personal itch so I'm not planning on releasing it to CPAN. However I am
willing to allow anybody to fork it and use what they want, I'll accept useful
patches and do that kind of stuff. If you do use it I'd love to hear about it!