---
layout: post
Title: The Perl Foundation
Date: 2010-06-27T15:08:03 EDT
Author: Chris Prather
---

# The Perl Foundation

Gabor Szabo recently [asked on his blog][1] what we want to see out of
[The Perl Foundation][tpf]. This was in response to the issues raised in
comments on his [grant request][2]. I'd made a comment in there that I
figured I should pull some of ideas from my comments there out into a
blog post in response Gabor's question.

Obviously much of the comments are specifically a response to the
particular grant proposal. However there are important pieces in there
about what I think the future of the TPF could be.

## Workshops ##

The TPF current helps with much of the infrastructure and financial
support for running the Three Perl Workshops in North America as well as
YAPC::NA. I know this because I've been involved with organizing a
workshop for the last 3 years (Frozen Perl initially and then Perl
Oasis), as well as writing the winning bid for YAPC::NA 2011 from
[Dahut.pm][dahut] and leading the organization efforts there[^1].

The conferences committee has put together excellent documentation for
helping plan a workshop or YAPC. Depending on the level of commitment
you want from them, they help process payments and write checks for the
venues etc.

I would love to see them continue and expand on this process. This is an
"easy win" for them because many workshops are self-funding. I would
love to see those of us like Pittsburgh, Minneapolis and Orlando be
called on to help give advice to new groups looking to host their own
workshop or write a YAPC bid. I know I was actually moved by the amount
of support I got at YAPC after the bid was announced from former
organizers Dan Wright, Casey West, Heath Bair, and Rob Kinyon to name a
few[^2]. These conferences are a *steal* compared to the equivalent in
other communities, anything we can do to make them bigger and better
should be a priority.

One of the pain points of being a conference organizer is fund raising.
Each set of organizers must individually contact all the different
companies who may or may not sponsor and give them a pitch. This is not
only highly inefficient, it annoys the companies that sponsor. I think
that one possible thing that the Perl Foundation could take on here
would be to take on some of this work. If we had someone at the TPF
level who could contact a list of donors and help work out some basic
sponsorship each year for the different workshops it would smooth the
process unmeasurably. These donors would be sponsoring the workshops
directly, that wouldn't change, but they would be coordinated across
*all* of the events the TPF is responsible for so we can help balance
funds and grow the number and quality of events.

## Grants ##

The Perl Foundation currently issues grants quarterly. In fact the 2010
Q3 Call for Proposals was just [announced][3]. Grants are for $500 to
$3000 in funding and help targeted projects get done. This is how the
[`Moose` documentation][4] was written.

The TPF traditionally has had a poor record when it comes to grants.
Looking at the [grant history][5] an embarassing number are failed.
However they are increasing their success rate. Dave Rolsky has an
excellent [post][6] discussing the nature of grants and motivation.
Let's just say that for some people they can provide the proper
incentive to perform good tasks for the community. Having them is in my
mind a net benefit.

## Events ##

Much more recently, and closer to the nature of Gabor's grant proposal
are the TPF involvement in non-TPF events. These events aren't
specifically non-Perl but are simply not one of the official events that
the TPF helps sponsor. These would include OSCON as well as many of the
events listed [on the wiki][7]. Gabor has been doing an amazingly good
job of organizing people to attend these and help spread the Modern Perl
movement beyond the echo chamber.

I personally think that the TPF should elevate this process to equal to
the Conferences and Grants. Those two efforts have official committees
and budgets to allocate to proposed efforts, and so should the Events
group. The budget would go toward whatever is necessary to attend an
event (SWAG, travel expenses, booth/space rental), and be allocated at
the discretion of the committee.

## Conclusion ##

As you can see the ideas here are a consolidation of the things the TPF
are already doing. I think that right now the TPF needs to organize
itself and find it's own identity and purpose. This is an introspective
process fundamentally but can be done in consultation with the
community[^3]. Only once they are successful at the things they are
*currently* doing will they be able to properly focus on a new endeavor.

[^1]: I am *deeply* indebted to the many many people who have
volunteered to help with YAPC::NA, and who have contributed to Perl
Oasis. For the help the TPF gives, nothing would happen if I didn't have
wonderful people getting things done.

[^2]: These aren't the only people to volunteer their support and
wisdom, they're just the ones I know are former organizers.

[^3]: The Perl Community is the main customer of the Perl Foundation. We
are the people who benefit most from their activities. 

[tpf]: http://news.perlfoundation.org/
[dahut]: http://dahut.pm.org
[1]: http://blogs.perl.org/users/gabor_szabo/2010/07/what-would-you-like-tpf-to-do.html
[2]: http://news.perlfoundation.org/2010/06/hague-grant-application-perl-e.html
[3]: http://news.perlfoundation.org/2010/07/2010q3-call-for-grant-proposal.html
[4]: http://search.cpan.org/dist/Moose
[5]: http://github.com/rjbs/tpf-grant-history
[6]: http://blog.urth.org/2010/07/do-tpf-grants-de-motivate.html
[7]: http://www.socialtext.net/perl5/index.cgi?events