https://www.facebook.com/curtis.poe/posts/10158200645477059?comment_id=10158203039152059&notif_id=1582120861255438&notif_t=feedback_reaction_generic


Also when you say: "Regular workers, by constrast, don't understand the power of risk+reward, why it drives people so effectively, because, by contrast, they're "safe". Many entrepreneurs risk losing everything, plus hurting many employees and their families if they fail. This pushes them hard to not fail. But the potential rewards pushes them hard to find new ways to succeed and grow. This has been a powerful driving force for the economy."

That's short changing regular workers *a lot*. Safe is hardly the term I'd use. Europe has a stronger social safety net, but even there many people are living paycheck to paycheck and if suddenly one of those doesn't happen, or suddenly isn't sufficient, "losing everything" is still a possibility.

I agree there is a strong dichotomy in most enterprises between the needs of the worker and the needs of the owner. How much of this though is due to capitalisim's need to separate labor as another fungible resource? I don't know, but my suspicion is that quite a bit of it is, not only directly but indirectly thorugh cultural norms.

Finally while I agree the potential rewards in capitalism do drive innovation and growth, it seems to me that the system is both based around a drug dealer ideology, and suffers from selection bias. Chapter 3 in Freaknomics covered some of the work of Sudhir Venkatesh, and it described the risk/reward scenario in drug gangs in Chicago in the early 90s. They operated effectively as an unregulated capitalist market place, with the income disparity being exactly what you think it would be, most of the revenue going to the very top while the bottom layers actually *paid* for access. It was the potential of fabulous success that kept the lowest tiers partiicpating rather than the "safety" of their position in hte overall enterprise.

It seems to me that western culture, especially in the US, highlights the potential of fabulous success from Capitalisim—primarily because it's a system where fabulous success can be achieved. As Ronald Write says in A Short History of Progress (referring to John Steinbeck) “Socialism never took root in America because the poor see themselves not as an exploited proletariat but as temporarily embarrassed millionaires.” Chiefly we picked this system because it works better than all the things we haven't tried, and it's re-inforced by all the "winners". Except that the times in our history that have been the *most* successful have been the times where captialisim and capitalists were restrained the most (ie the post war period with high taxation and strong government subsidies and controls). This suggests that maybe rather than focusing on capital as the primary resource, we should be orienting our econonmy to focus on humans as the primary resource.
